Speaker 0: Welcome to my channel.
Speaker 0: And this is a podcast Speak English.
Speaker 1: Hello, English learners.
Speaker 1: Welcome back to another lesson here at EnglishPod.
Speaker 1: My name is Marco.
Speaker 1: And my name is Kathryn.
Speaker 1: Hello, everyone.
Speaker 1: Today, Marco, what are we talking about?
Speaker 1: Well, today we are not really in the best mood.
Speaker 0: What do you mean?
Speaker 0: We're kind of sad, we're kind of nervous, we're not feeling very well.
Speaker 1: It's a cloudy day, maybe that's why.
Speaker 1: The blues.
Speaker 0: The blues.
Speaker 1: So, yeah, that's what we're talking about today.
Speaker 1: We're going to have a lot of different descriptive words to express maybe feeling sad, or maybe
Speaker 1: you're angry, or you're nervous, or something like that.
Speaker 1: Okay, well, this is a very useful lesson.
Speaker 1: Hopefully, you're not feeling this way.
Speaker 1: But if you have to talk about someone who is, I've got lots of words for you.
Speaker 1: But first, we're going to preview a couple in today's vocabulary preview.
Speaker 1: Vocabulary preview.
Speaker 0: All right.
Speaker 1: So, today on vocabulary preview, we're going to look at two words.
Speaker 0: And we're going to look at two words.
Speaker 0: words. And the first one is a way of saying that you feel sad. So basically, I'm feeling
Speaker 1: And we're going to look at two words.
Speaker 1: And we're going to look at two words.
Unknown: 
Speaker 0: down.
Speaker 1: Okay, down. You might have heard this before because it's the opposite of the word up.
Speaker 0: Exactly.
Speaker 1: So you're not feeling up happy looking up, you're feeling down. This is another word
Speaker 0: for sad like Marco said.
Speaker 1: Or you can also say I'm a bit down today, right?
Speaker 1: Yeah, I'm a bit down today. Or you look really down. Are you okay?
Speaker 1: Yeah, so you look sad. Is everything okay? So down. So now another feeling or a way that
Speaker 0: a person is feeling, maybe that person is grouchy.
Speaker 1: Would you please stop talking so loud, Marco?
Speaker 1: I think you have...
Speaker 1: No, seriously.
Speaker 1: Don't be grouchy, Kathryn. Geez.
Speaker 1: No, so grouchy is a way someone acts, usually when they're in a bad mood.
Speaker 1: Right. So it's not like really angry. You're not angry, but you're not very happy either.
Speaker 1: And you're not very nice to people. So there's a very famous TV character called Oscar the
Speaker 0: grouch on Sesame Street.
Speaker 1: street.
Speaker 1: Look for him on YouTube or Youku.
Speaker 1: And he's very, very good for learning about this feeling, grouchy, because he's a grouchy
Speaker 1: guy.
Speaker 1: Yeah, he's always angry or never happy basically.
Speaker 1: Right, he's always complaining about something.
Speaker 1: So that word again is grouchy.
Speaker 1: Alright, so after taking a look at these two words, we're ready now to listen to our dialogue
Speaker 0: for the first time.
Speaker 0: Let's see what this dialogue is about, if maybe they're grouchy or maybe just sad.
Speaker 0: Fine.
Speaker 1: Okay, I'll talk to you later.
Speaker 1: Bye.
Speaker 1: Carrie, are you okay?
Speaker 1: You seem a bit down.
Speaker 1: I just got off the phone with my boyfriend.
Speaker 1: He's always getting upset and losing his temper over nothing.
Speaker 1: It's so hard to talk to him at times.
Speaker 1: Maybe it's just that he's stressed out from working or something.
Speaker 1: He does have a pretty nerve-wracking job, you know.
Speaker 1: Yeah, but he's always in a really foul mood.
Speaker 1: I try to find out what's bothering him or get him to talk about his day, but he always
Speaker 1: shuts down and brushes-
Speaker 1: me off men are like that you know they can feel nervous anxious or on edge and
Speaker 1: the only way they can express it is by trying to hide it through aggressiveness
Speaker 1: I guess you're right what do you think I should do it wasn't always as grouchy
Speaker 1: you know talk to him try to cheer him up when he's down and if that doesn't work
Speaker 1: I say get rid of him and get a new one you are something else you know that
Speaker 0: all right so two girls talking about guys I guess guys have a bad temper
Speaker 1: sometimes right I think anyone can have a bad temper but we're talking today
Speaker 1: about one of the boyfriend of one of these girls who has a very bad temper
Speaker 1: and has been very grouchy recently mm-hmm and that's why she's feeling a
Speaker 0: bit down mm-hmm so let's take a look at those words now in language takeaway
Speaker 1: language takeaway all right so in today's language takeaway we've got some
Speaker 1: wonderful words for you words that are very good for describing stress or
Speaker 1: having anxiety
Speaker 1: And the first of these words is something you hear all the time, especially with young
Speaker 0: people.
Speaker 1: Mike Santos Right.
Speaker 0: Somebody is stressed out.
Speaker 0: Cristina Curp Oh my gosh, Marco.
Speaker 1: I'm so stressed out.
Speaker 1: I have 10 homework assignments to do and softball practice and my mom wants me to help cook
Speaker 1: dinner tonight.
Speaker 1: Mike Santos Well, you really are stressed out.
Speaker 1: Cristina Curp I am.
Speaker 1: Well, I don't have any homework and I don't live with my mom.
Speaker 1: But being stressed out is usually something you feel when you have too much stuff to do.
Speaker 1: Mike Santos So maybe you can be stressed out because of
Speaker 1: school, like in your case, or maybe at work you have a lot of things to do or a project
Speaker 0: to finish.
Speaker 1: Right?
Speaker 1: Cristina Curp Exactly.
Speaker 1: And I just want to point out here that you can say I'm stressed or I'm feeling stressed,
Speaker 1: but commonly in spoken English.
Speaker 1: So when you're talking to your friends, you hear this much more often.
Speaker 0: Stressed out.
Speaker 1: Mike Santos Stressed out.
Speaker 1: He's really stressed out lately.
Speaker 0: All right.
Speaker 1: So we're stressed out, or in other words, that kind of means the same is.
Speaker 0: This is nerve-wracking.
Speaker 1: Nerve-wracking. So nerves are those things in our body that help us feel things, right?
Speaker 1: And so something that racks our nerves makes us very, very tense, very anxious, very uncomfortable.
Speaker 1: Okay, so it makes you very nervous.
Speaker 1: Right, so there are some movies that are nerve-wracking.
Speaker 0: For example, suspense movies like Hitchcock's movies like Psycho or The Birds.
Speaker 1: Or like horror, like maybe Saw.
Speaker 1: Nerve-wracking. Also, some people think that roller coasters are nerve-wracking.
Speaker 1: They're very, very anxious when they ride roller coasters.
Speaker 0: Right, so let's listen to a couple of more examples of different situations where we can use this phrase nerve-wracking.
Speaker 0: Example 1.
Speaker 1: I think being a doctor is one of the most nerve-wracking jobs in the world.
Speaker 0: Example 2.
Speaker 1: Skydiving was one of the most nerve-wracking experiences of my life.
Speaker 1: I almost had a heart attack.
Speaker 0: Example 3.
Speaker 1: The final match between Brazil and Italy was incredibly nerve-wracking.
Speaker 1: And there's another way to describe this feeling again.
Speaker 1: It's a little bit different, but very, very similar.
Speaker 1: We can say someone is feeling on edge.
Speaker 0: On edge.
Speaker 0: So, this person was feeling on edge, but what does that mean exactly?
Speaker 1: You're like at the edge.
Speaker 1: Why do you have to ask so many questions?
Speaker 1: Okay, listen.
Speaker 0: This is basic.
Speaker 1: Okay, Marco?
Speaker 1: All right.
Speaker 1: All right.
Speaker 0: Are you mocking me?
Speaker 1: You're on edge today.
Speaker 1: All right.
Speaker 1: So, someone who is on edge is easily angered, right?
Speaker 0: So, it's very easy to make this person upset or angry.
Speaker 1: Someone who just quit smoking might be on edge.
Speaker 1: That means it's very, very easy to get them to be upset.
Speaker 1: Wow.
Speaker 0: So, yeah.
Speaker 0: You are on edge, right?
Speaker 1: Exactly.
Speaker 1: He's on edge.
Speaker 0: He seems on edge, doesn't he?
Speaker 1: Wow, these three words that we've just looked at are really interesting and very, very useful.
Speaker 1: I guess you can describe many different situations or a person that's going through these feelings,
Speaker 1: right?
Speaker 1: Absolutely.
Speaker 1: I think there are a thousand ways to describe being nervous or anxious or upset.
Speaker 1: So maybe we should take another listen to today's dialogue and figure out how exactly
Speaker 1: we use these words.
Speaker 0: When we come back, we'll be talking about some other phrases that are useful.
Speaker 0: Okay, I'll talk to you later.
Speaker 0: Bye.
Speaker 1: Carrie, are you okay?
Speaker 1: You seem a bit down.
Speaker 0: I just got off the phone with my boyfriend.
Speaker 1: He's always getting upset and losing his temper over nothing.
Speaker 1: It's so hard to talk to him at times.
Speaker 1: Maybe it's just that he's stressed out from working or something.
Speaker 1: He does have a pretty nerve-wracking job, you know.
Speaker 1: Yeah, but he's always in a really foul mood.
Speaker 1: I tried to find out what's bothering him.
Speaker 1: Or get him to talk about his day, but he he always shuts down and brushes me off
Speaker 1: Men are like that, you know, they can feel nervous
Speaker 1: Anxious or on edge and the only way they can express it is by trying to hide it through aggressiveness. I guess you're right
Speaker 1: What do you think I should do? He wasn't always as grouchy
Speaker 1: You know talk to him try to cheer him up when he's down
Speaker 1: And if that doesn't work, I say get rid of him and get a new one. He was something else. You know that
Speaker 1: All right, great. So now that we're back we can start with a couple of different phrases now on fluency builder
Speaker 1: fluency builder
Speaker 1: All right. So Marco, here's the big question
Speaker 1: What makes you lose your temper?
Speaker 0: hmm, I
Speaker 1: Think what makes me lose my temper very very easily is
Speaker 1: Like a dirty house or like a dirty room. Really? You're a neat freak
Speaker 1: Really neat freak but like if it's not at least semi
Speaker 1: clean, you know. It really bothers me. Okay, so this great phrase, lose your temper or lose
Speaker 1: one's temper, is a phrase we use in English to describe getting angry. All right, so maybe you're
Speaker 1: okay, you're a little frustrated with something, but someone does something like throws all of
Speaker 1: their clothes on the floor and Marco here says, that's it. I'm tired of this. You're always
Speaker 1: throwing your clothes on the floor. And that's an example of Marco losing his temper. What about
Speaker 0: you? What makes you lose your temper? You hear this? What is that? Oh, drilling, construction?
Speaker 0: When people tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, or when they like stomp their feet, feet, feet,
Speaker 1: or when they're nervous, when they make noise, yeah. So slowly, it's like, okay, fine, calm down.
Speaker 1: It's okay. Okay, no, seriously, stop it. And then all of a sudden, I just can't stand it anymore.
Speaker 1: Exactly. So. All right. So that's what makes you lose your temper. I'll be sure to keep my eye out
Speaker 1: for that.
Speaker 1: You lose your temper and now there are situations sometimes where you need to brush someone
Speaker 0: off.
Speaker 1: Alright.
Speaker 1: Or when you get brushed off and that's not very good feeling.
Speaker 1: But this phrase to brush someone off, you've heard the word brush before.
Speaker 1: It's the word that we use to brush your hair or brush your teeth exactly.
Speaker 1: When you brush someone off, it's like saying that you're ignoring them.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 1: So you ignore them or you basically tell them to go away very subtly sometimes or very directly.
Speaker 1: Exactly.
Speaker 1: And so to brush someone off is to avoid their company.
Speaker 1: And so a lot of times when people are angry, they like to be alone.
Speaker 0: So they brush you off.
Speaker 1: So I could say, hey, did you want to go see that movie tonight?
Speaker 1: No, I can't.
Speaker 0: I have to do something tonight.
Speaker 1: And then Marco walks away while we're talking.
Speaker 1: He's brushing me off.
Speaker 1: He's ignoring me.
Speaker 1: So it happens.
Speaker 1: And also maybe some people can make up excuses and that's also brushing someone off.
Speaker 1: Right.
Speaker 0: Exactly.
Speaker 1: So I brushed someone off or he brushed me off.
Speaker 0: It doesn't feel good.
Speaker 1: All right.
Speaker 1: And well, all of these, all of these bad feelings, brushing somebody off, maybe you feel stressed
Speaker 1: out.
Speaker 1: In the end, you always need a good friend to cheer you up, right?
Speaker 1: And that's what this dialogue is all about.
Speaker 1: Exactly.
Speaker 1: And so friends are actually the people that do that the best or family, I think.
Speaker 1: And well, we can break this phrase down because most of it's pretty clear, but cheer might
Speaker 1: be a new word for some of our listeners.
Speaker 1: Maybe we've heard of the term cheerleader, you know, like, give me an A, give me a B.
Speaker 1: So cheer or people cheering or cheers and the beer.
Speaker 1: So cheer is like happiness.
Speaker 1: So someone who can cheer you up is someone who makes you happy.
Speaker 1: Remember that down we had earlier, I'm feeling down.
Speaker 1: We're trying to cheer someone up.
Speaker 1: We're trying to make them go up and be happy.
Speaker 1: Exactly.
Speaker 1: So you want to cheer up your friends or maybe if you're feeling a bit down, a family member
Speaker 1: will try and cheer you up.
Speaker 1: Do you need someone to cheer you up, Marco?
Speaker 1: Yes, I do.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 1: Let's go have a drink and eat some popcorn and be cheery.
Speaker 1: That's what cheers me up, or chocolate always cheers me up.
Speaker 1: Oh, I know where there's some of that.
Speaker 1: All right, so we've taken a look at a lot of great phrases, but the last sentence of
Speaker 1: the dialogue is maybe a little bit strange, right?
Speaker 0: When she says, you are something else, you know that?
Speaker 1: Something what?
Speaker 1: Like a monkey?
Speaker 1: Is she an alien?
Speaker 1: Is she a monkey?
Speaker 0: What does she mean when she says, you are something else?
Speaker 1: That's a great question.
Speaker 1: Well, this might be a little bit hard to understand at first, but she's saying, I can't believe
Speaker 0: you.
Speaker 1: There's no one like you.
Speaker 1: You're really something else.
Speaker 1: You know that?
Speaker 1: So it's kind of like a joke, but what she's saying is, I can't believe you.
Speaker 1: You just want to go on and encourage me to find another boy.
Speaker 0: You're unbelievable.
Speaker 1: So it could be, is it on a positive note or can it be both positive and negative?
Speaker 1: Well, here we've got two friends who are using it, so it's a positive note, but she's kind
Speaker 1: of making fun of her saying, I can't believe you.
Speaker 1: But it can be negative.
Speaker 1: It can be more negative.
Speaker 1: If you're fighting with her boyfriend and her boyfriend cheats on her.
Speaker 1: And she's like, you're really something else, you know, you are something else, you know that it's like there's no comparison. You're the worst
Speaker 1: Yeah, exactly. So yeah, it really depends on how this is used and what the tone of voice is
Speaker 1: So how someone says it but in this case, I think it's a kind of a joke joke, but it's it's a positive, right?
Speaker 1: Very interesting. It's very spoken English as you say because all the words that we see there
Speaker 1: They're pretty simple
Speaker 1: But the context or the connotation the meaning is very very different from the actual words. Exactly
Speaker 1: All right. So let's listen to this dialogue for the last time and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more
Speaker 1: Okay, I'll talk to you later. Bye
Speaker 1: Carrie are you okay? You seem a bit down. I just got off the phone with my boyfriend
Speaker 1: He's always getting upset and losing his temper over nothing. It's so hard to talk to him at times
Speaker 1: Maybe it's just that he's stressed out from working or something. He does have a pretty nerve-wracking job, you know, yeah, but he's
Speaker 1: He's always in a really foul mood.
Speaker 1: I try to find out what's bothering him,
Speaker 1: or get him to talk about his day,
Speaker 1: but he always shuts down and brushes me off.
Speaker 1: Men are like that, you know.
Speaker 1: They can feel nervous, anxious, or on edge,
Speaker 1: and the only way they can express it
Speaker 1: is by trying to hide it through aggressiveness.
Speaker 1: I guess you're right.
Speaker 1: What do you think I should do?
Speaker 1: He wasn't always this grouchy, you know.
Speaker 1: Talk to him, try to cheer him up when he's down,
Speaker 1: and if that doesn't work,
Speaker 1: I say get rid of him and get a new one.
Speaker 1: You are something else, you know that?
Speaker 1: So, Catherine, are you a grouchy person?
Speaker 1: Are you happy?
Speaker 0: Do you have a bad temper?
Speaker 1: Oh, these are, well, very interesting questions, Marco.
Speaker 1: Thank you for asking.
Speaker 1: No, the first time, am I grouchy?
Speaker 1: No, not very.
Speaker 1: Only before 9 a.m.
Speaker 1: You're not a morning person.
Speaker 1: Not a morning person,
Speaker 1: so I'm very grouchy in the morning,
Speaker 1: but I'm generally pretty good about losing my temper.
Speaker 1: It doesn't happen very often.
Speaker 1: Oh, really?
Speaker 1: But I do get frustrated with things like tapping,
Speaker 1: or when people eat with their mouth open.
Speaker 1: Yeah, that's terrible. I hate that as well. Yeah, I can't stand or I really don't like when people bite their nails
Speaker 1: It also makes me lose my temper, I don't know it more than makes me lose my temper. It's kind of annoying, right?
Speaker 1: It is annoying. So what makes you really lose your temper?
Speaker 1: We say what makes you blow your top think about it a volcano really grinds my gears. Yeah
Speaker 1: I would say the worst is
Speaker 1: When somebody lies to me like straight in my face, like I know they're lying
Speaker 0: I know you're lying and they still just lie straight at me. I agree
Speaker 1: So what's something that really cheers you up because we talked about like going out with a friend maybe helps you help sit you up
Speaker 1: but is there one thing some kind of
Speaker 1: Remedy, I have actually I like to go shopping when I'm really yeah
Speaker 1: I mean, I won't buy anything like clothes or anything like that
Speaker 1: Usually I'll get maybe something for somebody else or for the house or something. It's very strange. You like clear your mind
Speaker 1: It's just like walking around and spending a little bit of money. I don't know. It's kind of a good remedy
Speaker 1: Yeah, I think so.
Speaker 1: What about you?
Speaker 0: What cheers you up?
Speaker 1: I kind of like to organize things.
Speaker 0: Really?
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 1: So if I'm really angry or really upset about something, I'll alphabetize all of my books.
Speaker 1: Oh, wow.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 1: So A to Z.
Speaker 1: Wow.
Speaker 1: See, everyone has different remedies.
Speaker 1: So come to our website, EnglishPodTalk.com.
Speaker 1: Tell us what makes you angry, what makes you lose your temper or what really cheers you
Speaker 1: up, what makes you happy.
Speaker 0: Or who cheers you up.
Speaker 1: So tell us, who is someone you like to talk to when you're upset and how do they cheer
Speaker 1: you up?
Speaker 1: All right.
Speaker 0: We'll see you guys there.
Speaker 1: And also, if you have questions, comments, suggestions, you can also leave them there
Speaker 0: in our comment section.
Speaker 1: Please do that.
Speaker 1: So that's all for today.
Speaker 1: Goodbye, everyone.
Speaker 1: Bye.
Speaker 0: Bye.
Speaker 0: Down in the dumps.
Unknown: 
Speaker 0: Sad or unhappy.
Speaker 0: Down.
Speaker 0: Having sad feelings or emotions.
Speaker 0: Have the blues.
Speaker 0: To feel very worried or anxious.
Speaker 0: Stress out.
Speaker 0: To fluster, unnerve.
Speaker 0: Rattled.
Speaker 0: Causing a person to feel very nervous.
Speaker 0: Nerve wracking.
Speaker 0: Makes me angry, upsets me.
Speaker 0: Grinds my gears.
Speaker 0: Refuse to talk about something with someone.
Speaker 0: Brush me off.
Speaker 0: Upset, very angry.
Speaker 0: pissed off
Speaker 0: to make someone happier
Speaker 0: cheer up
Speaker 0: let's try that faster
Speaker 0: causing a person to feel very nervous
Speaker 0: nerve-wracking
Speaker 0: sad or unhappy
Speaker 0: down
Speaker 0: having sad feelings or emotions
Speaker 0: have the blues
Speaker 0: refuse to talk about something with someone
Speaker 0: brush me off
Speaker 0: upset, very angry
Speaker 0: pissed off
Speaker 0: feeling sad, not happy
Speaker 0: down in the dumps
Speaker 0: to fluster a nerve
Speaker 1: rattled
Speaker 0: Makes me angry, upsets me.
Speaker 0: Grinds my gears.
Speaker 0: To make someone happier.
Speaker 0: Cheer up.
Speaker 0: To feel very worried or anxious.
Speaker 0: Stress out.
Speaker 0: Now say the word and hear it in a sentence.
Speaker 0: Down.
Speaker 0: Ben is feeling a bit down today since his girlfriend broke up with him.
Speaker 0: Down.
Speaker 0: Are you okay? You seem down today.
Speaker 0: Down.
Speaker 0: Whenever I'm feeling down, I go out with my friends.
Speaker 1: When I'm feeling down, I go out with my friends and then I feel much better.
Speaker 0: Stress out.
Speaker 1: David has been really stressed out lately. His boss is putting a lot of pressure on him in his new job.
Speaker 0: Stress out.
Speaker 0: I can't talk right now. I'm stressed out about this exam I have tomorrow. If I don't pass it, my dad is going to kill me.
Speaker 0: Stress out.
Speaker 0: Are you okay? You seem to be really stressed out lately. What's going on?
Speaker 0: Nerve wracking.
Speaker 0: I think being a doctor is one of the most nerve wracking jobs.
Speaker 0: in the world.
Speaker 0: Nerve-wracking Skydiving was one of the most nerve-wracking
Speaker 1: experiences of my life.
Speaker 0: I almost had a heart attack.
Speaker 0: Nerve-wracking The final match between Brazil and Italy
Speaker 0: was incredibly nerve-wracking.
Speaker 0: Brush me off.
Speaker 0: When she told me my project would be a better television film than a feature film, I thought
Speaker 0: she was brushing me off.
Speaker 0: Brush me off.
Speaker 1: I asked Trout on Instagram if I could ask her out on a date.
Speaker 0: date many times, but she always brushed me off, making up some excuse.
Speaker 1: She said no.
Unknown: 
Speaker 0: Brush me off.
Speaker 1: Carolyn went to the doctor without an appointment, and the receptionist brushed her off and told
Speaker 0: her to come back the next day.
Speaker 0: Cheer up.
Speaker 1: I hate it when people try to cheer me up when I feel sad.
Speaker 0: I just want to be left alone.
Speaker 0: Cheer up.
Speaker 1: I don't know what else to do.
Speaker 0: I've tried everything to cheer Mandy up, but she won't stop crying.
Speaker 1: Cheer up.
Speaker 0: You know what really cheers me up when I'm sad?
Speaker 0: Shopping.
Speaker 0: You know what really cheers me up when I'm sad?
Unknown: 